### **REPRESENT US Act:**
Bill #01.01.02
<br>

### Summary:
This bill uncaps the House of Representatives and establishes a ratio of people:representatives at 100,000:1.
<br>

### Intent:
The intent of this bill is to expand Americans’ access to the ballot box and reduce the influence of big money in politics, and for other purposes. 
<br>

### Articles (Academic):
*U.S. Population Keeps Growing, but House of Representatives is same size as in Taft Era - Drew Desilver* **([Link](https://www.pewresearch.org/short-reads/2018/05/31/u-s-population-keeps-growing-but-house-of-representatives-is-same-size-as-in-taft-era/))**<br>

### Articles (Journalism):
*To Fix Congress, Make It Bigger. Much Bigger. - Washington Monthly* **([Link](https://washingtonmonthly.com/2018/10/28/to-fix-congress-make-it-bigger-much-bigger/))**<br>




### Notes:
On average, there is currently one representative for every 762,989 people. The first congress had 65 members, one for every 57,000 people. Wouldn't it be nice to elect a representative who actually represents **YOU** and not the other 762,988 people living in the same general area?

### Sponsors/Authors:
* MosaicLaw<br>

### Funding:


### Public Comments:


### Text:<br>

**AN ACT TO AMEND THE APPORTIONMENT OF REPRESENTATIVES IN CONGRESS, TO ESTABLISH A FIXED RATIO OF CONSTITUENTS TO REPRESENTATIVES, AND FOR OTHER PURPOSES**

#### SECTION 1. SHORT TITLE
This Act may be cited as the "**R**atio **E**nactment for **P**roportional **R**epresentation to **E**nsure **S**table and **E**quitable **N**umbers in the House, **T**ransforming Representation of the **U**nited **S**tates Act" or "REPRESENT US Act"

#### SECTION 2. PURPOSE
The purpose of this Act is to restore the power of the legislative branch to the people.

#### SECTION 3. UNCAP THE HOUSE OF REPRESENTATIVES
1. In General. - Title 2, United States Code, is amended by striking the section that sets the number of Representatives at 435 and inserting a new section that allows the number of Representatives to be determined by the ratio of constituents to representatives
2. Ratio Establishment. - The ratio of constituents to representatives in the House of Representatives shall be established at 100,000:1, ensuring a more proportional and equitable representation for the American People.

#### SECTION 4. IMPLEMENTATION
1. The reapportionment of Representatives in accordance with this Act shall take effect with the next decennial census.
2. The Clerk of the House of Representatives shall make the necessary arrangements to accommodate the increase in the number of Representatives.

#### SECTION 5. SEVERABILITY
1. If any provision of this Act, or the application therof to any person or circumstance, is held invalid, the remainder of this Act and the application of such provision to other persons or circumstances shall not be affected thereby.

#### SECTION 6. EFFECTIVE DATE
1. The Act shall take effect immediately upon passage.
