### **Accountability in Law Enforcement Act**
Bill #04.02.02
<br>

### Summary:
Establishes Independent Review Board for all incidents involving Law Enforcement's Use of Lethal or Less-Lethal Force.
<br>

### Intent:
The intent of this bill is to restore community confidence in Law Enforcement and ensure no person or group is "above the law." 
<br>

### Articles (Academic):


### Articles (Journalism):


### Notes:
The line "We investigated ourselves and determined no wrong-doing" belongs in an SNL skit, not a police department's press release.

### Sponsors/Authors:
* MosaicLaw<br>

### Funding:

### Public Comments:


### Text:<br>

**AN ACT TO ESTABLISH A STATEWIDE LICENSURE SYSTEM FOR LAW ENFORCEMENT OFFICERS, ESTABLISH MINIMUM TRAINING FOR LEOS, ESTABLISH A MINIMUM SALARY FOR LEOS, AND FOR OTHER PURPOSES**

#### SECTION 1. SHORT TITLE
This Act may be cited as the "Accountability in Law Enforcement Act"

#### SECTION 2. ESTABLISHMENT OF THE INDEPENDENT REVIEW BOARD
1. An Independent Review Board ("the Board") is hereby established, consisting of 12 members, meeting specific demographic, professional, and income criteria as outlined in the initial proposal.
2. The Board's members must meet the following criteria:
- Four members from rural areas
- Four members from suburban areas
- Four members from urban areas
- Eight members who identify as white
- Two members who identify as black
- Two members who identify as neither white nor black
- Two members with an active Law Enforcement License in the State of Missouri
- Two members who are active members of the Bar, in good standing, in the State of Missouri
- Three members between the ages of 18 and 24
- Three members between the ages of 25 and 34
- Three members between the ages of 35 and 49
- Three members between the ages of 50 and 67
- Four members with a household income below $40,000/yr (in 2021 dollars, adjusted for inflation)
- Four members with a household income between $40,000 and $100,000/yr (in 2021 dollars, adjusted for inflation)
- Four members with a household income above $100,000/yr (in 2021 dollars, adjusted for inflation)
- All members must have a high school diploma and be at least 18 years of age.
- No two members should live in the same city, with the exception of Kansas City, St. Louis, Springfield, or Columbia (and then no more than two residents of the same city). 
3. The board will be selected through a volunteer and lottery system as outlined in Section 11

#### SECTION 3. TRAINING AND ORIENTATION FOR BOARD MEMBERS
1. All Board members shall undergo a mandatory training program that includes legal, procedural, and ethical aspects relevant to their duties.

#### SECTION 4. CONFLICT OF INTEREST POLICY
1. The Board shall operate under a strict conflict of interest policy to ensure impartiality and fairness in all proceedings.

#### SECTION 5. PUBLIC REPORTING AND TRANSPARENCY
1. The Board shall publish periodic reports detailing its activities, findings, and decisions to ensure transparency and public accountability.

#### SECTION 6. COMPENSTION AND EXPENSE
1. Board members shall be reimbursed for reasonable expenses incurred in the performance of their duties. Specifics regarding compensation, if any, will be outlined by the Department of Public Safety.

#### SECTION 7. PERIODIC REVIEW AND AMENDMENT OF GUIDELINES
1. The board's guidelines and procedures shall be reviewed and, if necessary, amended every two years to ensure continued effectiveness and fairness.

#### SECTION 8. LEGAL SUPPORT AND RESOURCES
1. The Board shall have access to necessary legal support and resources to effectively carry out its duties.

#### SECTION 9. POWERS AND RESPONSIBILITIES
1. The Board will have powers and responsibilities including, but not limited to, the following:
- The power to subpeona evidence
- Return special indictment with at least 7/12 votes in favor
- Unilaterally revoke any LEO's Missouri Law Enforcement License with at least 7/12 votes in favor
- Suspend any LEO License with at least 7/12 votes in favor for any amount of time greater than 6 months
- Suspension or revocation of LEO License will result in a ban on employment at ANY law enforcement agency in the State of Missouri during the duration of Suspension/Revocation
- Review any out-of-state LEO licensure application


#### SECTION 10. TERMS OF SERVICE
1. Board members will serve a term of 2 years.

#### SECTION 11. SELECTION PROCESS
1. Volunteers for the Board will be selected through a lottery system from applications submitted via the Missouri Department of Public Safety's website.
2. Applicants will be entered into a lottery system based on the criteria they fit to ensure that the Board meets the outlined standards.
3. If it is not possible to meet all criteria by the deadline, a public announcement will be made, and the deadline will be extended by one week. After this period, a random volunteer (who does not have a law enforcement background), will be selected to serve on the Board. 

#### SECTION 12. SEVERABILITY
1. If any provision of this Act, or its application to any person or circumstance, is found to be invalid, the remainder of the Act shall not be affected and shall continue in full force and effect.

#### SECTION 13. EFFECTIVE DATE
1. This Act shall take effect on [Date], following its passage and approval.